# MODEL0911270008: Wodarz2007_CD4TcellsInfection_VirusSpread

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0911270008.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0911270008.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Infection dynamics in HIV-specific CD4 T cells: does a CD4 T cell boost benefit the host or the virus?**   
Wodarz D, Hamer DH. _Math Biosci_ 2007 Sep;209(1):14-29
[17379260](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17379260) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Recent experimental data have shown that HIV-specific CD4 T cells provide a
very important target for HIV replication. We use mathematical models to
explore the effect of specific CD4 T cell infection on the dynamics of virus
spread and immune responses. Infected CD4 T cells can provide antigen for
their own stimulation. We show that such autocatalytic cell division can
significantly enhance virus spread, and can also provide an additional
reservoir for virus persistence during anti-viral drug therapy. In addition,
the initial number of HIV-specific CD4 T cells is an important determinant of
acute infection dynamics. A high initial number of HIV-specific CD4 T cells
can lead to a sudden and fast drop of the population of HIV-specific CD4 T
cells which results quickly in their extinction. On the other hand, a low
initial number of HIV-specific CD4 T cells can lead to a prolonged persistence
of HIV-specific CD4 T cell help at higher levels. The model suggests that
boosting the population of HIV-specific CD4 T cells can increase the amount of
virus-induced immune impairment, lead to less efficient anti-viral effector
responses, and thus speed up disease progression, especially if effector
responses such as CTL have not been sufficiently boosted at the same time.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Wodarz D, Hamer DH. (2007) - version02**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/wodarz_hamer_2007_version02)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


